Add `Introducing Quick Play` News Post (#14027)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2025/2025-11-28-introducing-quick-play.md

---
layout: post
title: Introducing Quick Play
date: 2025-11-23 12:00:00 +0000
---

Leaves fall rather quickly in the autumn, yet none of them will be as quick as osu!'s brand new matchmaking system!

![](REMEMBER_TO_ADD_BANNER)

The demand to add matchmaking to the game has not gone unnoticed. Rising popularity on some community solutions such as auto-hosting bots and full on external matchmaking services have only reinforced this idea.

> As of two weeks ago, however, osu! officially introduced its own version of matchmaking appropriately called [quick play](/wiki/Gameplay/Quick_play) (name pending)!

Author: Nowhere that I know, was mostly thrown as a "joke". It can be removed if deemed misleading, or make it more obvious.

The name of the game lies in its name: *quick* play! The system aims to provide a very casual experience for players who just want to hop into a lobby and get into the nitty-gritty of things. No need to create a lobby, wait for players to join, wait for everyone to ready up, and manually rotate the host between players. Users will be able to get the same experience at a much quicker and steady pace from a selection of pre-curated mappools across all game modes!

For those looking into more specific details, please check out the [wiki article](/wiki/Gameplay/Quick_play) to know more about the project's inner workings.

## Quick play launch event

> In an attempt to get the word out and to get more players to try out the system, the team has planned weekly test runs for the next four weeks. These runs will allow players to test quick play under different environments, allowing the team to gather user feedback and make adjustments towards the version that players like the most!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In an attempt to get more players to try it out, the devs have planned four weeks of test runs. These runs will test various versions of quick play, and allow the team to gather feedback for the general direction of the system and any future adjustments.
```

The current schedule alongside the different environments is as follows:

| Dates | Pool type | Matchmaking type |
| :-: | :-: | :-: |
| November 29th – December 6th | Manually curated | 1v1 |
| December 6th – December 13th | Manually curated | FFA |
| December 13th – December 20th | Randomised | 1v1 |
| December 20th – December 27th | Randomised | FFA |

> While the manually curated pools are an expansion of the existing pools players have been able to play so far, the team wants to experiment with pseudo-randomised pools that would be created on the fly based on a lobby's average MMR. Additionally, we want to experiment with different lobby sizes to see how players react towards different competitive environments.

Reviewer: first use of "MMR"

```suggestion
While the manually curated pools are an expansion of the existing pools players have been able to play so far, we want to experiment with pseudo-randomised pools that would be created on the fly based on a lobby's average skill level (i.e. matchmaking rating or MMR). We'll also be checking how people feel about different lobby sizes.
```
